v0.4.4 (2011-11-25)
===================

This is a long due release. The sparse 0.4.4 can be downloaded from:

https://www.kernel.org/pub/software/devel/sparse/dist/

The new sparse has a lot of bugs fixes. It will report less noise
while checking the new kernel tree. It compiles better with the
new gcc as well.

The sparse project is in the process of moving to the MIT license.
Dan is coordinating the efforts. Most sparse developers sign off
the MIT license already. If you haven't done so, please contact
Dan off the list regarding the new license.

Here is the short summery of the changes in this release.

Have a nice long week end.

Chris

Ben Pfaff (1):
   * evaluate: Allow sizeof(_Bool) to succeed.

Christopher Li (13):
   * inspect: adding function arugument list
   * Allow overwrite CFLAGS from command line
   * Ignore attribute vector_size
   * Remove set but not used variable
   * inspect: Add switch statement and more
   * validation: inline switch statement
   * Fix inlining switch statement.
   * Sparse 0.4.4-rc1
   * Add test case for empty asm clobbers
   * Fix parsing empty asm clobber
   * Sparse 0.4.4-rc2
   * Add test case for binary constants
   * sparse 0.4.4

Dan Carpenter (1):
   * recognize binary constants

Diego Elio Pettenò (3):
   * build: allow easy override of GCC_BASE
   * build: add an all-installable target that builds the targets to install.
   * Fix build with GCC 4.6 series.

Florian Fainelli (1):
   * Makefile: warn user when libxml and/or libgtk2 are not available

Jan Pokorný (4):
   * remove unused "container" macro
   * flow.c: make comment for 'dominates' reflect code
   * use ARRAY_SIZE() when possible (continued)
   * parse.c: "if(" -> "if (" adjustment

Jonathan Neuschäfer (3):
   * fix a memory leak in compile-i386.c
   * FAQ: fix a typo ("because or")
   * fix common misspellings with codespell

Kamil Dudka (2):
   * cse: treat PHI-nodes as other instructions
   * cse: update PHI users when throwing away an instruction

Linus Torvalds (5):
   * Add new streams to a hash-list based on their names
   * Teach 'already_tokenized()' to use the stream name hash table
   * Make 'linearize_iterator()' helper function
   * Make 'linearize_switch()' helper function
   * Make 'linearize_return()' helper function

Michael Stefaniuc (1):
   * Ignore the ms_hook_prologue attribute.

Namhyung Kim (3):
   * use ARRAY_SIZE() when possible
   * Fix tokenizer for octal escape sequences
   * Update the validation check for escape sequences

Nicolas Kaiser (1):
   * memops.c: always true expression

Pekka Enberg (4):
   * sparse: Add 'artifical' to ignore attributes
   * sparse: Enable unhandled validation tests
   * Show expected vs. actual output on test failure
   * sparse: Fix __builtin_safe_p for pure and const functions
