v0.4.3 (2010-11-02)
===================

Hi,

It is final there. The sparse version 0.4.3 is released.

Mostly small fix up. It can parse the recent kernel better, less noise.

For people interested in the sparse internals, there is a sparse inspecting
tools now. Currently it has limited knowledge of AST. It is very easy to
extent though.

Thanks every one for the contribution.

Chris

--

Bernd Petrovitsch (1):
   * Fix a typo - "typdef" is neither C nor plain English

Christopher (3):
   * evaluate: check for NULL type inside typeof
   * Add test case for builtin_unreachable()
   * inspect: add some expression inspection

Christopher Li (15):
   * Make MOD_NORETURN fits into 32 bit
   * Move noreturn attribute out of ignore attr area
   * Declare ignored attributres into a list of string.
   * Simplify Makefile using static pattern rules
   * Adding test case for "x && y && z" .
   * Pointer don't inherent the alignment from base type
   * Allow parsing L'\0'
   * Parsing wide char string
   * Adding asm goto label test case
   * inspect: add custom ast treeview model
   * inspect: add some example inspect for symbol and statement
   * inspect: Add test-inspect program
   * inspect: cast expression
   * Fixup and cleanup modifier_string() function.
   * sparse 0.4.3 finial

Damien Lespiau (1):
   * Ignore the may_alias GCC attribute

Dan Carpenter (1):
   * add test-inspect to .gitignore

Dan McGee (1):
   * Makefile: fix permissions mixup on install

Daniel De Graaf (1):
   * Fix incorrect linearization of "x && y && z"

Jiri Slaby (3):
   * parser: add support for asm goto
   * parser: fix and simplify support of asm goto
   * parser: define __builtin_unreachable

Joel Soete (1):
   * possible fix to cgcc issue in sparse 0.4.2:

Josh Triplett (2):
   * Rename -Wall to Wsparse-all, so it doesn't get turned on unintentionally
   * New attribute designated_init: mark a struct as requiring designated init

Kamil Dudka (1):
   * do not ignore attribute 'noreturn'...

Michael Buesch (2):
   * ignore attributes "externally_visible" and "signal"
   * Ignore "naked" attribute

Michael Stefaniuc (3):
   * Ignore the ms_abi/sysv_abi attributes.
   * Ignore the alloc_size attribute.
   * Handle __builtin_ms_va_list.

Mike Frysinger (1):
   * parser: add Blackfin gcc info

Morten Welinder (1):
   * skip may_alias and declare builtin_fabs
